Fresh breath and shining teeth enhance your personality .
Your self-confidence also increases with teeth .
Bacteria stay between our gums and teeth .
They make teeth dirty and breath stinky .
You may keep your teeth clean and breath fresh by the help of some easy tips given here .
Clean your teeth properly .
It takes two to three minutes to clean your teeth properly .
But most of the people give less than one minute for this .
Drink plenty of water .
Bacteria attack fast if the mouth dries up .
With this stink comes from breath .
By drinking plenty of water not only the left-over pieces of food gets cleaned but saliva also gets formed .
Saliva has important role in keeping the mouth clean .
Saliva destroys those bacteria which create stink in breath .
Chew the sugar-free chewing gum .
Saliva is formed by chewing the chewing gum .
Chewing gum helps in keeping the teeth clean .
Sugared chewing gum is not supposed to be good for health .
That is why dentists do not suggest chewing sugared chewing gum .
Get the teeth checked-up regularly .
Get the teeth checked-up with the dentists regularly .
They solve small problems of the teeth easily .
Clean the mouth after meal .
Do clean the mouth every time with water after eating .
The left-over pieces of food is cleaned by it .
Clean the teeth with the mixture of lemon and salt .
Taking a spoon of salt pour three to four drops of lemon juice in that .
Clean the teeth every week with this mixture .
Not only teeth starts shining with this .
But one also gets relief from stinking breath .
If there is health there is everything .
It is not less than a challenge to keep oneself healthy in today 's busy life .
But you can keep yourself healthy by paying attention to your food habits and by bringing a little change in your lifestyle .
Eat less fatty food .
Eat only that food in which there is less fat and more fiber .
Fruits and vegetables have a ratio like this .
We get helped in controlling our weight by taking less fatty and fibered food .
You keep yourself far from many diseases by eating less fatty and fibered food .
Take less salt and alcohol .
Take the least quantity of salt and alcohol to control blood pressure and cholesterol .
Stop smoking .
There is a danger of several diseases including cancer with smoking .
Try your best to quit it .
Exercise daily .
You must include exercise in your daily routine .
You can prevent heart diseases , colon cancer , blood pressure and diabetes like diseases by regular exercise .
Keep doing light physical activities .
Keep doing small physical activities like climbing stairs , gardening , small domestic works or dancing .
These retain the flexibility in the body .
If fever comes continuously you must get it checked up .
Malaria , kalajar , tuberculoses starts with fever .
Summer season has started .
Do not eat stale food and the things being sold at road sides .
Do not feed children fast food , kurkure , ice-cream .
In case of vomiting and loose-motion feed the O . . . or mixture of salt and sugar .
Drink pure water as much as you can .
I suffer from fever continuously .
Kalajar , Malaria or high fiver may have happened .
My child is suffering from both diarrhoea and malaria .
First feed the mixture of O . . . after this get the child checked-up with a paediatrician .
Fever occurs at an interval of two to three months since two and half to three years .
Not only this . white coat also forms on tongue .
Drink plenty of water and get urine culture done .
What are the primary symptoms of kalajar .
I have light fever for some days .
Get the fever checked up and only after the other essential tests kalajar can be verified .
Fever goes down after taking the tablet of Metacin and again fever increases up to 103 .
X-ray and TC-DC are normal .
Measure the fever every four hours .
If fever is more then 100 give a pill of paracetamol and take suggestions from a medicine specialist doctor .
What is H . .  .
How does it happens .
State the solutions of prevention .
This is a kind of virus .
Its spread occurs mainly through unprotected sex relation , infected needle , infected blood and from mother to children .
The disease immune capacity of the body keeps on decreasing with this .
What is the identification of bone TB , and what is its treatment .
Pain in the bones , continuous fever , whether it is low or increasing by the evening , deformation of bones along with pain are the symptoms of tuberculosis .
Bones become weak and starts melting .
Paralysis may also attack in this situation .
To test it do digital X-ray . . . . take medicine of tuberculosis for a year and consult the specialist doctor .
Keep a shawl necessarily over the body and run the fan to the minimum in the night while sleeping .
If you do not feel comfortable with it take anti-allergic tablet for ten days .
Children are suffering from prickly heat , what to do .
What is the home treatment of diarrhoea .
Put two spoons of sugar and a pinch of salt in a glass of water and boil it .
Does kalajar occur because of sun .
Does its influence increase in summer .
Kalajar is caused by the sting of sand-fly .
Its treatment is available in all the hospitals .
There is a tablet also available for this now .
What should be done when a child suffers from whooping cough .
Administer the DPT vaccine to the child .
Get consulted with a specialist doctor and get the mucus tested for cough .
How much aware are you about the care of your eyes .
Get eyes checked up every six months .
Maintain the glass or contact lens .
Washing eyes regularly .
But along with all this if you pay attention to your food-habits .
not only the vision of your eyes may be better .
but you will also be safe from eye diseases .
The chairperson of the Department of Ophthalmology of Liverpool University Dr . Ian Greerson says .
Common blindness causing diseases like cataract and glaucoma can be prevented by increasing the amount of vitamin-C and omega-3 oils and some special plants in diet .
So let us know how your diet should be to keep eyes healthy .
You should include green vegetables in your diet to keep eyes sharp .
Eating spinach , broccoli , germinated grains may be beneficial in this regard .
There are two important elements like lutein , zeaxanthin which are responsible to keep vision sharp .
This has been testified in the six-year study by the American National Eye Institute that this element saves old people from blindness .
Therefore everybody should eat hundred grams of green vegetables in the form of salad .
You must eat two or three eggs daily in breakfast .
Bilberry or blackberry anthocyanin saves from blindness or cataract .
It is also found in the research that it strengthens the cell which brings blood and nutritious elements into the eyes .
That is why you can also eat bilberry or blackberry in breakfast or with fruit salad .
There is no better solution but to eat fish for keeping eyes healthy if you are a non-vegetarian .
By eating fish not only your skin , hair , brain remain healthy but eyes also sharpen .
Omega-3 fat found in fish decreases the danger of glaucoma and weak eyes in old age .
Not only this , it saves you from dry eye syndrome .
It is stated in another study that women suffering from ophthalmic problems such as dry eye syndrome can decrease this problem up to 68 percent by eating tuna fish .
The use of dry fruits etcetera in Indian cuisines has been continuing for centuries .
But do you know that all the dry fruits such as almond , cashew nut , walnut , raisins etcetera are also very beneficial for eyes besides being nutritious .
Plenty of vitamin-B is found in these , which not only saves from cataract , many kind of blindness and other eye diseases but also protect eyes from the harms of ultraviolet rays .
Start eating pieces of dry fruits in sweets daily at the time of breakfast or meals .
Whether it is about dropping weight or care of skin , the advice of fresh fruits in meals is given in all the cases .
So , why should it be left for eyes .
The danger of glaucoma , cataract , and blindness can be decreased to a great extent by taking diet rich in vitamin-C .
Including fruit , vegetable in meal is enough to maintain the eyes healthy .
Including these things in your diet you can save your eyes from getting weakened .
Besides this drinking milk , eating carrot is also proved to be beneficial .
Taking diet rich in vitamin-A can also be helpful in keeping eyes healthy .
A little care taken in diet may also put new life in your eyes .
Paralysis may be controlled by yoga .
Paralysis - when generally the functionalism , and dynamism of muscles and pulse of the right or left side of the body go less or end this problem is said to be paralysis .
Paralysis is limited to half of the body , whole of the body or only till face .
The main reason of this problem is increasing high blood pressure , blood clotting in brain , the situation of extreme happiness or sorrow etc .
By yogic exercise this disease can be overcome surely .
Although yoga solves the problem of paralysis permanently but it takes time and is tough .
Therefore medicines should be taken in the beginning and yoga exercises should be done along .
Here the main yogic diagnosis for paralysis are presented .
Start with light exercise .
This can be practiced only by lying down .
After that as the situation improves , add Pavanmuktasana , Vajrasana , Shashankasana , Makarasana etcetera in practice .
What is onikomysis .
Add Suptvajrasana , Trikonasana , Uttanpadasana , Gomukhasana and Ardhmatsyendrasana etc .
Here the method of practice of Janushirasana is presented - sit stretching both the legs forward .
Bending the right leg from the knee touch its sole to the left leg and put the heel below the genitals .
Bringing both the hands to the forefoot of the left leg bend forward so much that the head touches the ground .
Staying in this position for a comfortable period come back to the previous state .
Do the same exercise another side also .
The patients of sciatica and slip disk should avoid its practice .
Narishodhan and ujjayi pranayam play the role of panacea to make brain and central nervous system functional and to balance and function to the nervous system .
Do its practice under the eligible guide according to your capacity without kumbhak or holding of breath .
Yoganidra - the main cause of this problem is mental tension and sentimental imbalance .
Meditation is the best way to free mind from all worries , sorrows , pains , grief and fears .
Do practice this daily for ten to twenty minutes .
Eat simple , easily digestible , nutritious food , eat bread of braned flour , old rice , porridge , pulse of green lentil , take fruits and green vegetables .
Avoid heavy , hard to digest , tea , coffee , tobacco , intoxicating things and exciting element .
Avoid citrus food item .
Apply the walnut oil into the nostrils of the nose daily .
Rub the body from top to bottom with furred towel after bathing .
Use warm water for bathing .
The rising interference of technology in day-to-day life has made us very luxurious .
Though life has become easy with mobile phone , internet but it also has harms .
Why would anyone want to bother his mind when a piece of information or a secret is just a click away .
But later these habits can have lethal impact specially on the capacity of the brain to remember .
The more you use your brain the more capable it will be .
Brain exercise works on this very fundamental .
If daily common work is done in a little different way then all those parts of your brain that was not being used at all earlier would start becoming active .
Changing clothes while keeping the eyes closed , learning a new subject or new game .
Adopting methods like switching on electricity by the left hand instead of the right hand we can open the closed windows of the brain .
A thing is remembered for a long time only when attention is paid to it .
Read attentively whatever is to be remembered , and before going forward concentrate up to eight seconds .
See then how a thing is not remembered .
Everybody has his own way to remember or learn anything .
Some people are better visual learners .
These are the people who learn something after watching or reading .
At the same time some people are better audio learner who learn after listening .
Which method is convenient for you ?
Identify that and use the same to remember .
May be you are a visual learner but to remember read aloud .
It will be better if you try to remember as a poem .
Make it a habit to remember by relating information with a color , smell , taste .
Try to remember the new information by relating it with an old information .
Try to remember any information through words and pictures .
Remembering in chart or short form would also prove helpful .
Brain can also be kept sharpened by adopting some good habits .
Brain gets more oxygen with regular exercise , with which the danger of losing memory also decreases .
Along with some such chemical agents also oozes that will save the cells of brain from getting destroyed .
Tension does not let the mind concentrate .
With more tension hormone cortisol harms the hippocampus of the brain seriously .
The brain remains fresh with having good sleep .
With incomplete sleep there is a tiredness the whole day and it becomes difficult to concentrate on any work .
By smoking cigarette the arteries bringing oxygen to the brain start shrinking with which the brain starts weakening .
Taking plenty of fruits , vegetables is proved to be beneficial for health along with the brain .
Memory gets sharpened with vitamin B , B-12 , B-6 , food items with folic acid such as spinach , green vegetables , strawberry , juicy fruits like watermelon , soybean .
They destroy the homocysteine which harms the nerves .
They help in making red blood corpuscles which brings oxygen to brain .
Vitamin E . and antioxidants are found in tomato , green-tea , broccoli , sweet potato .
They increase the flow of oxygen in body and brain with which the activeness of brain increases .
The brain sharpens by eating fish , walnut and almond also .
H . . . stands for ` Human Immuno-deficiency Virus ' .
H . . . attacks the immune system of the body .
Immune system is such a system of arrangement in our body that saves us from infection .
Immune system identifies the disease-carrier or ` external invaders ' like virus , bacteria , etc and kills them .
H . . . is a virus which attacks the immune system , specially CD-4 cells and destroys them .
CD-4 cells help protect the body from different diseases .
What happens when a person gets infected with the H . . .
By entering into CD-4 cells the HIV increases its number very fast by reproducing and during this new viruses gets born in the cells .
With this the CD-4 cells get divided .
With the division in the CD-4 cells many viruses enter into the blood-circulation .
After this the H . . . attacks other CD-4 cells , and this process is repeated again and again .
H . . . destroys most of the CD-4 cells and thus the immune system of infected person gets destroyed .
Do get H . . . tested .
H . . . test is easy , safe and available at public health centres .
The following consequences show up if a person is caught up with AIDS .
A person starts falling ill again and again and continuously goes on weakening .
A person becomes infected easily .
With immune capacity lessened these contractions catch these people very easily .
Do not oppose the people living with AIDS .
Join the great travel of the nation against the HIV and AIDS .
Community Service Centre is for the people infected or unaffected with AIDS .
Here the H . . . infected persons are taken full care of and assisted , so that the member of the affected family can live a dignified and complete life .
Generally pap starts developing in girls after the age of 15 years .
Today one small hole is sufficient to remove several diseases of the abdomen and the chest and this method is known as ` Laparoscopic surgery ' or ` key hole ' or ` button hole surgery ' .
To extract gall bladder if a stone has emerged in the gall bladder .
To extract the appendix in case of swelling in the appendix .
To ward off the disease of peptic ulcer .
To repair hiatus hernia .
For the treatment of inguinal hernia .
Apart from this some diseases of the internal parts of chest may also be cured by this method .
For example cancer -LRB- abdominal -RRB- , the diseases of the liver , diseases related to the intestine etc .
In comparison with the traditional surgical operation this method has many advantages .
In the button hole surgery the patient faces much less pain after operation .
There is no need to stay at hospital for more days due to no stitches being applied .
